BD-2643: Update existing Android Push Notification docs (XMPP deprication) (#6600)
braze-inc/braze-docs: _docs/_developer_guide/platform_integration_guides/android/push_notifications/android/integration/standard_integration.md

# Standard Android push integration

> Learn how to integrate push notifications in your Android app.

With push notifications, you can re-engage your app users by sending time-sensitive and relevant content directly to their device screen&#8212;even if their app is closed. When you're finished integrating push for your app, be sure to check out our [push best practices]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/push/best_practices/).

## Registering for push

In this section, you'll learn how to register for push using Google's [Firebase Cloud Messaging (FCM)](https://firebase.google.com/docs/cloud-messaging/) solution. If you'd like to view a sample app using FCM with the Braze Android SDK, see [Braze: Firebase Push Sample App.](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-android-sdk/tree/master/samples/firebase-push)

### Step 1: Add Firebase to your project

> First, you'll need to add Firebase to your Android project. For step-by-step instructions, see Google's [Firebase setup guide.][49]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, add Firebase to your Android project. For step-by-step instructions, see Google's [Firebase setup guide.][49]
```

Reviewer: Active language would be preferable to descriptive. That is, "Add Firebase" is stronger than "You'll add Firebase."

I am _very_ prone to using the "you'll do X" as a sentence structure. When I find that I'm doing this, I open up a Find window in my IDE and have "you'll" as a search string. Every time I type it, the IDE flags it for me.

Author: I removed the others because I think this is a good suggestion, however I kept this one in because it's the only step where we _do not_ help the customer complete the task or walk them through the steps. So in my mind "You'll need to..." makes sense here since it really is on them? 

Happy to change post merge though if you feel strongly about it 👍🏽

### Step 2: Add Cloud Messaging to your dependencies

> Next you'll add the Cloud Messaging library to your project dependencies. In your Android project, open `build.gradle`, then add the following line to your `dependencies` block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, add the Cloud Messaging library to your project dependencies. In your Android project, open `build.gradle`, then add the following line to your `dependencies` block.
```

```gradle
implementation "com.google.firebase:firebase-messaging:+"
```

Your dependencies should look similar to the following:

```gradle
dependencies {
  implementation project(':android-sdk-ui')
  implementation "com.google.firebase:firebase-messaging:+"
}
```

### Step 3: Create a service account

> Next you'll create a new service account, so Braze can make authorized API calls when registering FCM tokens. In Google Cloud, go to [Service Accounts](https://console.cloud.google.com/iam-admin/serviceaccounts/project), then choose your project. On the **Service accounts** page, select **Create Service Account**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a new service account so Braze can make authorized API calls when registering FCM tokens. In Google Cloud, go to [Service Accounts](https://console.cloud.google.com/iam-admin/serviceaccounts/project), then choose your project. On the **Service accounts** page, select **Create Service Account**.
```

![A project's service account home page with "Create Service Account" highlighted.]({% image_buster /assets/img/android/push_integration/create_a_service_account/select-create-service-account.png %})

Enter a service account name, ID, and description, then select **Create and continue**.

![The form for "Service account details."]({% image_buster /assets/img/android/push_integration/create_a_service_account/enter-service-account-details.png %})

In the **Role** field, find and select **Firebase Cloud Messaging API Admin** from the list of roles, then select **Continue**.

> ![The form for "Grant this service account access to project" with "Firebase Cloud Messaging API Admin" selected as the role.]({% image_buster /assets/img/android/push_integration/create_a_service_account/add-fcm-api-admin.png %})

Reviewer: I'm not sure that having more than one image is adding to the understandability of this section. The decision is up to you, but you might consider cutting every image after the first until you get to a next step.

Author: Good suggestion. I cut the last image since it's technically an option step. I kept the first two in because step 2 confused me personally when I was trying to choose the role from the list--figured it'd be helpful for others as well.

If you need to grant specific users access to your FCM service account, add them now. When you're finished, select **Done**.

![The form for the final step: "Grant users access to this service account."]({% image_buster /assets/img/android/push_integration/create_a_service_account/complete-service-account-creation.png %})

### Step 4: Generate JSON credentials

> Next you'll generate JSON credentials for your FCM service account. On Google Cloud IAM & Admin, go to [Service Accounts](https://console.cloud.google.com/iam-admin/serviceaccounts/project), then choose your project. Locate the FCM service account [you created earlier](#step-3-create-a-service-account), then select <i class="fa-solid fa-ellipsis-vertical"></i>&nbsp;**Actions** > **Manage Keys**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, generate JSON credentials for your FCM service account. On Google Cloud IAM & Admin, go to [Service Accounts](https://console.cloud.google.com/iam-admin/serviceaccounts/project), then choose your project. Locate the FCM service account [you created earlier](#step-3-create-a-service-account), then select <i class="fa-solid fa-ellipsis-vertical"></i>&nbsp;**Actions** > **Manage Keys**.
```

> ![The project's service account homepage with the "Actions" menu open.]({% image_buster /assets/img/android/push_integration/generate_json_credentials/select-manage-keys.png %})

Reviewer: Re: Images - I feel differently about these sorts of screenshots that show how the screen changes to your actions. 

Also, kudos on good alt text.

Select **Add Key** > **Create new key**.

![The selected service account with the "Add Key" menu open.]({% image_buster /assets/img/android/push_integration/generate_json_credentials/select-create-new-key.png %})

> Choose **JSON**, then select **Create**. Be sure to remember where you downloaded the key&#8212;you'll need it in the next step.

Reviewer: Big fan of reminders like "Be sure to remember where you downloaded the key."

![The form for creating a private key with "JSON" selected.]({% image_buster /assets/img/android/push_integration/generate_json_credentials/select-create.png %}){: style="max-width:65%;"}

### Step 5: Upload your JSON credentials to Braze

> Next you'll upload your JSON credentials to your Braze dashboard. In Braze, select <i class="fa-solid fa-gear"></i>&nbsp;**Settings** > **App Settings**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, upload your JSON credentials to your Braze dashboard. In Braze, select <i class="fa-solid fa-gear"></i>&nbsp;**Settings** > **App Settings**.
```

Use [Firebase Cloud Messaging](https://firebase.google.com/docs/cloud-messaging/) to register for push. For a full sample of using Firebase with the Braze Android SDK, see our [Firebase push sample app](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-android-sdk/tree/master/samples/firebase-push).

### Step 1: Add Firebase to your project

First, you'll need to add Firebase to your Android project. For step-by-step instructions, see Google's [Firebase setup guide][49].

### Step 2: Add Cloud Messaging to your dependencies

Next you'll add the Firebase Cloud Messaging (FCM) library to your project dependencies. In your Android project, open `build.gradle`, then add the following line to your `dependencies` block.

```gradle
implementation "com.google.firebase:firebase-messaging:+"
```

Your dependencies should look similar to the following:

```gradle
dependencies {
  implementation project(':android-sdk-ui')
  implementation "com.google.firebase:firebase-messaging:+"
}
```

### Step 3: Create a service account

{% alert note %}

> If you already have a service account...

Reviewer: This is still in Draft mode, but I'll just flag that this sentence is unfinished. :)

{% endalert %}

> Next you'll create a new service account, so your app can make authorized API calls when registering FCM tokens for your user's devices. In Google Cloud, go to [Service Accounts](https://console.cloud.google.com/iam-admin/serviceaccounts/project), then choose your project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next you'll create a new service account, so Braze can make authorized API calls to Firebase Cloud Messaging. In Google Cloud, go to [Service Accounts](https://console.cloud.google.com/iam-admin/serviceaccounts/project), then choose your project.
```

![Placeholder image tag.]()

Select **Create Service Account**.

![Placeholder image tag.]()

Enter a service account name, ID, and description, then select **Create and continue**.

![Placeholder image tag.]()

Choose your project, then select **Continue**.

![Placeholder image tag.]()

> In the **Service account admins role** field, add **Firebase Cloud Messaging API** as an admin, then select **Done**.

Reviewer 2: i might have forgotten what the UI looks like, but what is "as an admin"? do you mean only an admin can generate new permission? if so that makes sense.

![Placeholder image tag.]()

### Step 4: Generate a private key

> Next you'll generate a private key for your FCM service account. On Google Cloud IAM & Admin, go to [Service Accounts](https://console.cloud.google.com/iam-admin/serviceaccounts/project), then choose your project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next you'll generate and download JSON credentials for your new Firebase service account. On Google Cloud IAM & Admin, go to [Service Accounts](https://console.cloud.google.com/iam-admin/serviceaccounts/project), then choose your project.
```

![Placeholder image tag.]()

Locate the FCM service account [you created earlier](), then select **Actions** > **Manage Keys**.

![Placeholder image tag.]()

Select **Add Key** > **Create new key**.

![Placeholder image tag.]()

> Choose **JSON**, then select **Create**. Be sure to remember where you downloaded the key--you'll need it in the next step.

Reviewer: You'll want to swap out the "--" for `&#8212;`

![Placeholder image tag.]()

### Step 5: Upload your private key to Braze

Next you'll upload your FCM service account's private key to your Braze dashboard. In Braze, select **Settings** > **App Settings**.

![Placeholder image tag.]()

Choose your app.

![Placeholder image tag.]()

Under **Push Notification Settings**, choose **Firebase**, then select **Upload JSON File** and choose the private key [you downloaded earlier]().

![Placeholder image tag.]()

When you're finished, select **Save**.

![Placeholder image tag.]()

> ### Step 7: Set up automatic token registration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 6: Set up automatic token registration
```

> When a user opts-in for push notifications, you'll need to create a unique FCM token for their device before you can send them notifications. With the Braze SDK, you can enable automatic FCM token registration for each user's device by updating your project's Braze configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a user opts-in for push notifications, your app needs to generate FCM tokens for their device before you can send them notifications. With the Braze SDK, you can enable automatic FCM token registration for each user's device by updating your project's Braze configuration.
```

On [Firebase Console](https://console.firebase.google.com/), open your project, then select **Settings** > **Project settings**.

![Placeholder image tag.]()

Select **Cloud Messaging**.

![Placeholder image tag.]()

Under **Firebase Cloud Messaging API (V1)**, copy the number in the **Sender ID** field.

![Placeholder image tag.]()

{% alert important %}

> Do **not** copy the Firebase Sender ID under **Cloud Messaging API (Legacy)**. This feature is no longer supported by Google.

Reviewer: As part of our style, we do not use bold or italics for emphasis. I think it's enough to just flag this as "important".

  .setSessionTimeout(60)
  .setHandlePushDeepLinksAutomatically(true)
  .setGreatNetworkDataFlushInterval(10)
  .setIsFirebaseCloudMessagingRegistrationEnabled(true)
  .setFirebaseCloudMessagingSenderIdKey("FIREBASE_SENDER_ID")
  .build();
Braze.configure(this, brazeConfig);
```
{% endsubtab %}
{% subtab KOTLIN %}
```kotlin
val brazeConfig = BrazeConfig.Builder()
  .setApiKey("BRAZE_API_KEY")
  .setCustomEndpoint("CUSTOM_ENDPOINT_OR_CLUSTER")
  .setSessionTimeout(60)
  .setHandlePushDeepLinksAutomatically(true)
  .setGreatNetworkDataFlushInterval(10)
  .setIsFirebaseCloudMessagingRegistrationEnabled(true)
  .setFirebaseCloudMessagingSenderIdKey("FIREBASE_SENDER_ID")
  .build()
Braze.configure(this, brazeConfig)
```
{% endsubtab %}
{% endsubtabs %}
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

{% alert tip %}
If you'd like manually register FCM tokens instead, you can call [`Braze.setRegisteredPushToken()`](https://braze-inc.github.io/braze-android-sdk/kdoc/braze-android-sdk/com.braze/-braze/registered-push-token.html) inside your app's [`onCreate()`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/app/Application.html#onCreate()) method.
{% endalert %}

> ### Step 8: Remove unnecessary permissions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 7: Remove unnecessary permissions
```
